# Authorization guidelines for easy integration with third-party apps

## Background 

The Vitamin app will is designed to integrate well with other medical apps. The purpose the integration is to server as a bridge between other apps and NHIF (National Health Insurance Fund). In order to do that in a secure and scalable manner, other apps must comply to a specific API interface, which would allow them to integrate seemlessly and without any coding needed. Below is described the flow and API endpoints fetching various data objects. 

## Authorization

For secure authentication and authorization between Vitamin and you app, the prefered workflow is based on OAuth 2.0's Authorization Code Grant with [Proof Key for Code Exchange](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7636).

The PKCE was developer to address the threat of having the authorization code intercepted. In order to do that the client creates a code verifier (random number) and a code challenge (usually a SHA256 of the code verifier) and uses them to prove its identity.

Detailed info on the flow can be found in the link above. To summarize, the steps of the flow are the following:
1. The client (Vitamina app in our case) redirects the user to your domain (auth server) and sends along a code challenge
2. User enters credentials (that would usually be username and password)
3. Server validates credentials and throws error in case of failure or in case of success redirects the user back to the client (Vitamina app) along with an authorization code
4. Vitamina app exchanges a code verifier and the authorization code for an access token and a refresh token


### 1. 
Client creates a code verifier and challenge and redirects the user to the auth server.

Code Verifier -  a cryptographically random string using the characters `A-Z`, `a-z`, `0-9`, and the punctuation characters `-._~` (hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde), between 43 and 128 characters long.

Code Challenge - this is the result of using the code_challenge_method on the code_challenge, in case of SHA256, that would be the SHA256 hash of the code_verifier.
```
https://YOUR_DOMAIN/authorize?
    response_type=code //authorization code is expected
    client_id= //a unique ID for the Vitamina app of other third party clients, registered with your auth server
    redirect_uri= //the URL to which the user should be returned after successfull authorization
    code_challenge=<CODE_CHALLENGE> //the code challenge string
    code_challenge_method=S256 //can be either S256 or plain, but plain should not be used in production
```


### 2. 
User enters credentials (usually username and password).

### 3.
In step 3 the auth server should verify the user credentials and in case of success, it should
- generate an authorization code 
- store the code_challenge, code_challenge_method and the authorization code
- redirect the user to the redirect_uri

If the authorization request is missing the code challenge, the server should return an error response with error=invalid_request and the error_description or error_uri explaining the error.

### 4.
The client should exchange the authorization code for an access token and a refresh token. To prove that the it's still the same client that made the original call and noone intercepted the authorization code, the client sends the code_verifier and the auth server checks it against the code_challenge stored on the previous request (in case of SHA256, it hashes it and checks the hash against the challenge).
```
POST https://YOUR_DOMAIN/oauth/token
	grant_type=authorization_code //the grant type of this token request
	client_id= //a unique ID for the Vitamina app of other third party clients, registered with your auth server
	redirect_uri= //same as in previous request
	code=authorization_code //the authorization code received from the previous request
	code_verifier=code_verifier //the code verifier created initially by the client
```

On success the server should return a response in the following format:

```
{
  "access_token": "...",
  "refresh_token": "...",
  "id_token": "...", //optional OpenID Connect token encoding  the user's authentication information
}
```

### 5. 

Refreshing the access token - if the access token has expired, the client can renew it using the refresh token provided previously by the auth server.
```
POST https://YOUR_DOMAIN/oauth/token
	grant_type=refresh_token //the grant type of this token request
	client_id= //a unique ID for the Vitamina app of other third party clients, registered with your auth server
	refresh_token= //the refresh token previously generated by the auth server
```

On success the server should return a response in the following format:

```
{
  "access_token": "...",
  "refresh_token": "...",
  "id_token": "...", //optional OpenID Connect token encoding  the user's authentication information
}
```

## Fetching Data

In order for the Vitamina app to fetch all needed information on the patients file, the endpoints descried below are needed.
Each API call will require the client to authorize via [bearer token](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750), by adding the following header:
```
Authorization: Bearer <bearer_token> // the access code obtained through the API
```

### 1. Get Patient Info

Fetch patient info for the currently authorized user

```
GET <YOUR_API_URI>/patient-info
```

Expected response:
```
[{
	patient_id: "...", //the unique ID of the patient in your system
	first_name: "...",
	last_name: "...",
	... // ?? others ??
}, 
{...},
...]
```

### 2. Diagnoses

Fetch all diagnoses for a user

```
GET <YOUR_API_URI>/patients/<patient_id>/diagnoses
```

Expected response:
```
[{
	code: "...",
	title: "...",
	position: "...",
}, 
{...},
...]
```

code - string consisting of a single letter, followed by 2 digits, dot and another 2 digits, examples: *A22.35*, *S14.28*
title - free text, describing the diagnosis
position - ???


### 3. Lab Results

Fetch all lab results for the currently authorized user

```
GET <YOUR_API_URI>/patients/<patient_id>/lab-results
```

Expected response:
```
[{
	id: "", //unique identifier
	patient_id: ""...",
	date: "...", //date and time object formatted according to ISO 8601
	assayData: [
		{
			assay_name: "...", //string
			assay_abbreviation: "...", //string
			value: "...", //string
			unit: "...", //string
			ref_range: "...", //string
			patho_value: "...", //char - either H (for high) or L (for low)

		}, {
			...
		}]
}, 
{...},
...]
```